.. _arch-center-compliance:

==========
Compliance
==========

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: onecol

MongoDB uses a comprehensive compliance and trust program for MongoDB Atlas.
https://www.mongodb.com/products/platform/trust

MongoDB is committed to delivering the highest levels of standards conformance
and regulatory compliance as part of our ongoing mission to address the most
demanding security and privacy requirements of our customers. 

This section lists the key considerations that allow you to
enforce strict compliance controls.

{+service+} Features and Best Practices for Compliance
------------------------------------------------------

MongoDB Atlas offers multiple features that allow you to address
compliance requirements.

- Robust Encryption. Implement encryption to ensure data security and
  compliance across all stages of data handling:
  
  - Encrypt data in transit using Transport Layer Security (TLS).
  - Encrypt data at rest using AES-256 encryption.
  - Encrypt data in use to ensure privacy and regulatory compliance.
    
    MongoDB Atlas supports client-side encryption, allowing you to protect
    data throughout its lifecycle.
    
    You can use Queryable Encryption to secure queries on encrypted data.
    With queryable encryption, sensitive information remains protected
    even when users run queries on data.
    
    Choose encryption configurations that support expressive queries.
    Use well-researched non-deterministic encryption schemes to maintain
    a balance between security and functionality.

- Data Sovereignty: MongoDB Atlas simplifies data sovereignty compliance through two key features: 
  Multi cloud and multi region clusters: As highlighted in the Reliability and Scalability sections below, MongoDB Atlas gives users a choice of 110+
  cloud regions across the 3 major cloud providers Google Cloud Platform, AWS, and Microsoft Azure. With MongoDB Atlas, users can address data
  sovereignty concerns by deploying dedicated MongoDB clusters in a specific cloud provider and region of their choice. For example, a European
  company handling sensitive customer data can choose to deploy their MongoDB cluster in a data center located within the European Union, such as in
  Frankfurt, Germany, using AWS or another cloud provider. By doing so, the company ensures that all data remains within EU borders and complies with
  the GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation).
  
  Global clusters with zoned sharding: Global clusters enable users to partition their database into distinct zones, each situated in a different geographical location. This feature allows precise control over data storage locations. For example, they can ensure that European customer data remains in Europe, while U.S. customer data is stored in the U.S. This configuration not only aids in compliance with data sovereignty regulations but also enhances performance by reducing latency for users accessing data from their respective regions.


  Compliance with regulations, such as GDPR, CCPA, HIPAA, and PCI-DSS.
  MongoDB Atlas allows you to use multi-region and multi-cloud clusters
  to ensure security by distributing data across geographically diverse
  regions and cloud providers, reducing the risk of localized failures,
  and ensuring data redundancy. You can also leverage the multi-cloud
  flexibility, deploying global clusters with zoned sharding to precisely
  control data storage locations. This approach ensures compliance with
  local data sovereignty laws while maintaining operational efficiency
  across different regions.

- Certifications. MongoDB Atlas has ISO/IEC 27001 and 9001, PCI DSS, HIPAA, GDPR,
  and FedRAMP certifications. These certifications provide a foundation
  for meeting industry-specific regulatory requirements. Use these certifications
  to ensure that your data practices align with necessary compliance demands
  while maintaining robust security controls.

  MongoDB Atlas Compliance and Attestations: MongoDB's data platform undergoes rigorous independent audits to verify its security, privacy, and organizational controls. These audits help ensure that the platform meets a wide range of compliance and regulatory requirements, including those specific to highly regulated industries. MongoDB Atlas has obtained the following certifications:
ISO/IEC 27001:2022: Global standard for information security management systems.
ISO/IEC 27017:2015: Global standard for cloud-specific security controls.
ISO/IEC 27018:2019: Global standard for protecting sensitive data (PII) on the cloud.
ISO 9001:2015: Globally recognized standard for Quality Management.
PCI DSS: Requirements for processing and accessing credit card data.
HIPAA: U.S. privacy regulation safeguarding health information.
GDPR: Privacy protections for data in the EU and EEA.
IRAP: Australian government cybersecurity assessment framework.
TX-RAMP: Texas Risk and Authorization Management Program.
TISAX: Trusted Information Security Assessment Exchange for automotive industries.
HDS: French standard for hosting health data (Hébergeur de Données de Santé).

To learn more, visit the MongoDB Trust Program: https://www.mongodb.com/products/platform/trust


Multi-region snapshot distribution: By adding multiple region snapshot distribution with Atlas Cloud backups, users can also increase resilience by
distributing backup snapshots and oplogs across geographic regions instead of just storing them in their primary region.This allows them to meet
compliance requirements of storing backups in different, air gapped geographical locations to ensure disaster recovery in case of regional outages.

Backup compliance policy: This feature enables organizations to further secure business critical data by preventing all snapshots and oplogs stored in Atlas from being modified or deleted for a predefined retention period by any user, regardless of Atlas role, guaranteeing that their backups are fully WORM (Write Once Read Many) compliant. Only a designated, authorized point of contact can turn off this protection after completing a verification process with MongoDB support.

